Learning Java Script basics by building mini games and thinking about the comparisons with python.
Build Diary:
Rock Paper Scissors - 13/06/2023 I found this quite a nice way to get started with Java script. Obviously I'm coming from completely different syntax in python but the concepts are translating well. The approach of the tutorial is a bit unsure, on the one hand its being stated that this is an absolute beginners tutorial but occasionally its assumed that you already have a grasp of the syntax. Luckily i am following along well, I've asked Chat GPT to elaborate on a few things and managed to build a slightly nicer and more elegant version than the one in the tutorial using my my experience in python and asking chat GPT to translate my concept. I'm conscious of the fact that in doing this I have to make absolutely sure I am taking the time to read the syntax thoroughly and learn it and typing it out rather than copy and paste otherwise I'm never going to learn anything! I found that towards the end of this tutorial I was skipping ahead of the video and having to wait for the video to catch up with me when i got a little stuck for syntax. Thats a good sign. Tomorrow I'll do another one. I like JavaScript.
<br>

Legend of Zelda Memory Game - 15/06/2023 Building the memory game demonstrated to really just how useful its going to be to know a little bit more about javascript. learning about JS ability to create elements set my mind a racing' with the possibilities this will offer once I get comfortable with it. At this point when I'm thinking broadly about how to mesh Django and JS together and what strengths they bring I'm obviously running into road blocks in my thinking because I don't know enough about JS but I'm hoping the further I go into JS as an isolated asset, the more ill be able to make assumptions about its power as a paired one. I don't wish that I'd learned JS instead of Python, but I do wish I'd started learning JS sooner.

<br>
Breakout - 17/07/2023 Working with similar concepts to the memory game it was interesting to see how javascript can be used to both build and tear down parts of a wireframe with the use of conditional logic and for loops. This is obviously well good. I managed to get well ahead of the tutorial on this one and then i just used it to catch up when I got stuck with something or couldn't think of a way to implement something. I think there might be some kind of mystical barrier happening where because I feel like I don't know the language very well I'm second guessing my logical decisions as well. I think this might be a confidence filter or some kind due to it being a new environment. I built the player and the logic for the movement with very little help from the tutorial, as well as end game logic. Good stuff.

<br>
Frogger - 19/07/2023 Building frogger worked more on the methods I've already used so far. It was good to repeat lots of things, I'm noticing I'm not remember the syntax as well as I did learning python but that might just be because I already know one language its messing me up. I was also trying to think half way though how I've navigated through an array in python before and I couldn't for the life of me think it through so I definitely think somethings happening in my brain when I'm learning this new language. It might be an idea to do some python array work again like a minesweeper or something just to see how quickly it happen to switch back to the old language like when expats go home for Christmas or something. Im not really that worried about it, I'll make something soon.

<br>
Connect four - Space invaders - 21/06/2022 Finished the last two games from the tutorial. Over all I've really enjoyed it. Java script makes a lot more sense to me now and I can appreciate the nature of a language with more syntax that python. I like that you have to state a lot more, even though its amazing how much of the work python does for you, I can see how it can also be a benefit to be more explicit in your code. I haven't really been syntax thinking much about logic and structure with this tutorial as it was much more about syntax and methods for me but I think I know enough now to start thinking about it a lot more. I don't think I'll build anymore game type things but I do think that I'd like to try make some animations with the information this tutorial has taught me.
Ive left a lot of the work un commented in order to be able to go back through and comment it while looking through it an d understanding it on second pass. This is a task for future me that I have left deliberate to give me another opportunity to go through the code and understands it on a deeper level after the act of doing the tutorial. Will I actually do it ? who knows. I'm pretty excited about another idea already to be honest I want to get back into Processing again and see how p5JS differs to python. Even though Im probably going to start using raspberry PI for art projects. Lets see. All i n all a great experience and I know a lot more about Javascript now than I did a week ago.
